so today we're gonna be taking a look at
something small not big I was it's a we
got something huge do take a look at but
no it's actually kind of small but you
know what fractal design a company that
I like don't get me wrong but they've
tried to reinvent the rectangle just too
many times but - that's I say they've
got something new but I also have
something else to say - that the
straight power 11 Platinum power supply
from be quiet features up to 94%
efficiency in virtually silent operation
due to the legendary silent wings three
135 millimeter fan fully modular cables
and power ratings ranging from 550 watts
and up mean that the straight power 11
platinum power supply from be quiet is
the perfect choice for your next build
or upgrade to learn more and to see all
specs follow the sponsored link in the
description below so this is the era ITX
computer case from fractal design a case
that we have known about for like a year
and a half now that's been delayed upon
delayed upon delayed for I guess the
right reasons because manufacturing
tolerances changes tooling things that
didn't quite meet the standard so I
guess if there's ever a reason to delay
something it would be for something like
this but this this was originally
supposed to be fills ITX case and that
unfortunately just got delayed so many
times we in the building of something
else
unfortunately you can see why I wanted
to maybe use it in my space right not
the website but the one I'm working on
the only problem with this and you'll
see once it's on the case is this really
restricts airflow so if you were do like
a home theater PC type of build maybe
someone has it doesn't have a lot of
heat you could leave this on the top
otherwise they do give you a mesh panel
which gives you airflow I kind of just
feel like drilling amma julienne holes
in this which wouldn't look very good
would not look pretty at the end of the
day but that's that's alright so if we
want a little accessory box there's not
a lot here it's just screws but this is
the part we all care about trust me when
I say this is unlike anything fractal
design has ever made in the past and I'm
glad to see them taking some risks
and some chances coming out with
something else I sort of wished this
were available in the same aesthetics in
like a micro eight ah rack dog you'd do
this to me every time perspective ah
alright this case is stupid light Phil
hold out one hand it's really late right
yeah so that was an indication of how
light this is I'm sure this is making
Josh nervous anyway there it is well
there it is right there
so this is they're gray they're
available in a bunch of different colors
grey blue we have one of the cobalt ones
here which is blue it's like a gold
silver a black Phil can put up all the
colors on the screen so they asked my
stupid colors were and asked for the
blue ones and the grey one so it's kind
of take a walk around obviously this is
an ITX chassis so that means you're
gonna be able to fit an ITX motherboard
in here it also is going to be using sfx
power supply so you can see they clearly
are gonna have the power supply mounted
somewhere else because we have a
relocation power supply cable right here
so it's probably gonna be somewhere in
the middle you can see you can fit your
graphics card it's got like it they did
a bitty 80 millimeter fan right there so
obviously you're gonna want to put some
top fans on this whether your water
cooling or not but it is also water
cooling friendly and I'm gonna be honest
here I have no idea how this comes apart
okay comes apart like that so he just
pull on it but this shows you why it's
so light this is all milled aluminum
look at that curve like in terms of just
aesthetics this is so pleasing this one
should pop off in the same manner yes so
it's just it's got these little kind of
push nipples if you will that go right
into the side right that's go away
Candice right you got the filter
material here which I guess you could
cut out if you don't want because if
these are exhausts you don't really need
the filter in my opinion on exhaust fans
that's just gonna slow down your airflow
and you not to worry about dust falling
in nearly as much as being sucked in and
so that means it's gonna pull in through
those vents on the side you have the
exhaust fan on the back it could pull in
through the bottom as well because you
could see you have these gaps right here
so even though you just have these
little rubber feet that keep them from
sliding
you do have filtered side ventilation
there so it can pull in the exhausting
out the top and pulling through the
sides the side panels which you saw
already and then moves up that way right
so you came out drives this way I don't
think they mount on this side because if
they did
yeah hits the middle first so they would
mount on the inside like this so if you
were just running like all MDOT to
storage which I kind of feel like a lot
of ITX people would do these these days
to try and keep cables tidier not having
to have any Saito's run till there or
SATA connectors or SATA power running to
their drives so the power supply
obviously mounts right here vertical in
the front so you have another
mid-mounted cage right here that's for
the power supply which as I said is SFX
but plenty room for it SFX or an SFX L
which is the longer version so we can
take off this bracket you can fit two
two and a half inch drives or a single
three and a half inch drive to this cage
there's one screw there there's two in
the back right here so once we remove
this we should be able to remove that
piece which would give us just a little
bit more of an open layout in the front
looks like you can also change the
height adjustment of this so that's a
drive cage right there which also
doubles as a standard ATX mount I just
noticed that so that is awesome because
if you don't want to run an SFX power
supply you can run a full-sized power
supply something like a 600 or something
short so here's the full-size ATX
bracket right there
and then here is the SFX bracket right
here so these are fully adjustable
height wise at least with as many screw
holes as you see you've got it there so
one two three four five six different
height adjustability oh look at this
fill USB 3.0 flat cable which I feels
really long for the size of this case
front panel connector is just a power
switch and a power LED and then this is
your HD audio guys okay anyway so
they're long but that's nice because you
can then have lis
to route them around the way that you
see fit but if we pull out this bottom
cover here which I think comes off based
on what I see right here oh they are
screaming thanks for saying that
otherwise you did thence blue so on the
body here so there's six screws that
hold this bottom piece on however it
looks like there is room to put two 120
millimeter fans on the bottom as well
which means you can have a nice updraft
style build so although it's got that 80
mil in the back which is really small
and it on its own is not going to move
much air and for a gaming PC if you
built a gaming PC in this it's not going
to get the job done you definitely would
be able to get the proper airflow for a
gaming rig if you do two on the bottom
two on the top so the bottom is pulling
air up the top is exhausting air out I'm
kind of curious what the airflow is
gonna be like with the maple on the top
so I'm gonna do right now is I'm gonna
kind of rig this up with four fans and a
power supply so as you can see there
with just the chassis now this is what
you get there's no removable front on
this that is riveted in but if you
needed to remove this piece here for
some reason then you can undo these four
screws there's four screws that hold it
to the front and then you can get to
this now it is spaced and perforated a
little bit so what's gonna happen there
is it's gonna pull in air kind of from
this gap on the bottom and from inside
the chassis for the power supplied now
in terms of graphics cards you're not
gonna fit any large style card in there
you're gonna be stuck to reference PCB
or smaller so once it's in there you can
see the fans also push right against
this ventilated bottom so the it's gonna
have to pull air in through that gap on
the bottom that I showed earlier so a
couple things to show right now while
I'm doing this mock up you can see I
have an SFX power supply in here it's
not an SFX l:l is this a little bit long
I've got a 20 atti so that's a reference
card in there got the motherboard in
there the top panel actually comes off
it's threaded on there with four screws
which is kind of nice because any
additional sides that you can get to
force a cable management and such it's
gonna make it that much better to try
and get things all wired up
speaking of cable management this this
power supply right here this is the FSF
600 from Corsair this is Phil's old
power supply he has like the the short
cable set that's you know braided and
whatnot
it's got the sleeve on it paracord is
probably like the 24 pins probably okay
as you can see four PCI Express we only
have to go from there to there so this
is one of those things where like
getting a custom cable set from
something like maybe cable mod or mod
one or whatever would make a lot of
sense in terms of cleaning this up on
the flip side to that there is no side
panel no glass panel for this so you're
not gonna see the inside anyway so it's
one of those things where it all depends
on how anal you want to be in terms of
how nice you know it looks inside when
you can't see it which is kind of a
disappointment considering how good
these parts look like even the Z 390 I
ITX motherboard from Asus the gunmetal
matches this case perfectly and I'm like
imagine if I was to do a tempered glass
side panel build in this case with the
nickel how that would have looked if it
had a glass panel now that's not to say
that you can't somehow customize this in
some way and make it work I mean
nothing's impossible but I just think
that would have looked so so good so
what I'm gonna do for the mock-up right
now is I'm not gonna do like an actual
system boot and generate any heat
because I don't have an OS or anything
ready to go but what I can do is I can
throw in these easy DIY fab fans that I
showed you in our one of our last videos
like last week and I can mock them up to
move air so I can at least measure the
air flow coming out of this chassis so
we're doing two
200 or to 120 millimeter fans on the top
so you can see I've got the power supply
space down just enough to clear this see
at first I spaced it for the bracket and
well that's not gonna work because I've
got the the extension cable here that I
have to account for
so this barely fits but the nice thing
is taking this off made a lot easier
although I could slide it in there if I
needed to I could fully custom loop this
and I kind of want to take the take on
that challenge and do a full custom loop
in this case although I'm not going to
do a custom loop on the graphics card
because the height of the terminal in
terms of putting the fittings on there
will not allow it with the side panel so
it would only be a water-cooled CPU loop
this is one of those things where
although I'm not building a full system
in this right now I still say that when
it comes to case reviews and such you
never ever get the full story until you
start building in it because things
might look great on paper and they might
look great as you're going oh you could
put this here and you can put that there
oh look at what they did there sometimes
it might not work out as practical as
designed so that's one of the things
that we're at least able to test by
doing a mock-up with graphics card and
fans and power supply and motherboard
which is why I was able to say
immediately like custom cables on this
would certainly make the job easier it's
not impossible I mean it would just be a
little bit of a cable management
nightmare there's plenty of room here
that you could coil up cables and just
kind of jam them back there so we are
running this test right now with the top
fan filter in place the side filters are
in place and then we are gonna start
first with the maple top right here now
with the maple top on all you get is the
gap around the edges in terms of airflow
so I do expect airflow to be impeded
quite a bit by that we are using my easy
DIY fans to control well the remote
control to control the fan so I can do
slow medium and fast and then I am gonna
have the 80ml fan running at a hundred
percent it's such a slow rpm fan anyway
it makes like no noise you are going to
make it go now
I'm literally sticking my ear to it and
although it's turning and I can feel a
little bit airflow that fan alone this
is not gonna get the job done but we
know that these DIY are easy DIY fins
move a crap-ton of air so let's go ahead
and just get these on because I want to
hear what the acoustic sound like to no
man
and that's going full-speed right there
now if I put there now there's one other
thing to the graphics card is not on the
graphics card fans on the bottom are
gonna be sucking a lot of air in so the
graphics card itself although will be a
heat load for the chassis is going to be
bringing air through the bottom which is
gonna feed more air for this because
remember right now these fans have to
overcome the side panels here bringing
air in they've got to overcome the
resistance of the graphics card kind of
blocking almost all of that off it then
has to overcome the volume that the
chassis is and then it's got to overcome
the filter and then the mesh if you're
not running the mesh it has to overcome
the walnut top and you got the mesh top
doesn't even bug me I mean the walnut
although it's a veneer it's not a solid
walnut its MDF covered veneer covered
MDF that's fine it gives you the look
and I'm perfectly fine with veneer
because anyone that's ever done a solid
wood panel top like in when I'm looking
at you stop doing it because of the
curling of the wood over time with the
different humidities of different
regions and stuff like take this to the
Philippines right fill with the humidity
there and it's a solid piece of wood by
the end of the day it's a gray so it
would never stay straight so and then
who cares like it it looks real unless
you're one of the people that's like I
have many leather-bound books and rich
mahogany but what about if you're
running in AI oh well you're gonna be
wanting to run some high static pressure
high speed fans and then acoustics at
that point become a factor because
you're gonna then have to add the
resistance of a radiator on top of this
so you're asking a lot of to fans now I
feel like if I turned the 80 mil around
it would make very little difference
simply
because of the fact that that 80 mil is
barely turning now there's one other
thing I want to try I'm gonna remove
these side filters here yes which means
we're going to be adding dust to the
system and I want to remove these
filters down here so you can remove the
filters from the perforated sides right
there on both sides so I'm just trying
to open up the airflow as much as
possible
I feel like much has changed honestly
yeah that's not gonna work so you're
certainly gonna be at a limitation of
the height of the Coolidge you could fit
in there in fact you can fit exactly
this much millimeters in height in there
I'm of the mindset that if I could feel
the airflow that I know we're gonna have
cooling there has been systems I built
where you could barely feel the airflow
and yeah temperatures did suffer a
little bit but I also believe that
you're when you adopt a chassis like
this you've chosen aesthetics and you
have chosen a form factor over the
maximum cooling capacity and that's
something that you're just gonna have to
accept in fact to date I still believe
the best cooling and performing ITX
chassis that I have ever used is the
Corsair one caveat you can't buy it you
have to buy it in a complete build so
it's kind of a moot point right there I
feel like if more brands started to
incorporate the convection assisted
cooling I don't think I don't know
there's a patent on that there might be
or at least something derivative of it
then you'd get much better performance
which is what this one's kind of trying
to do honestly the difference is on a
chassis like that you're forcing the air
to come in through the radiators fresh
air through the rads not fresh air
slowed-down make turns then through rad
which is kind of what we're gonna sort
of be dealing with right here so as you
can see I was able to fit a 240 rad in
there I had to push the SFX down quite a
bit the air for exhausting from the PSU
is gonna push right up into the radiator
but the radiator is gonna take that air
and suck it through if this thing is
being pushed to its limit and putting
off hot air it's gonna pull hot air into
that rag it's gonna pull hot air anyway
because of the graphics card being down
here so the fans are going to be turning
max speed
1200 rpm though just got a piece of
paper right here look it it's really
hard to visualize this why I always do
the paper stuff with you guys it will
create a cushion of air that's just
gonna push it so it may not be
necessarily the most airflow like how
these fans were reopened without
anything on there so what if I do the
maple yeah the maple is pretty but if
cooling okay if aesthetics are number
one you can go with the maple let your
stuff run its max temperature if you
want maximum performance you go with the
mesh so let's talk about some other
things here if you look right here
you'll see that this panel doesn't align
perfectly with that edge anymore
that's not fractals fault it's my fault
the reason for that is aluminum is a
soft metal and when I went to put these
back on I as an idiot just assume
because it's kind of the round nipple
type I assumed that all four of them
were the punch on type so I was like man
wasn't getting on
Bam Bam Bam and I realized like oh the
bottom has his little V channels that
they slide down into and then you clip
the top on I bent this panel easily and
then I was like well maybe I can bend it
back and Phil saw it was like weren't
like oh oh oh so I've been trying to
make it fit again ever since I don't
want to destroy this panel for the sake
of this video to show you guys but think
of iPhone bendgate if you drop this it
will Bend if you punch it and my
punching I mean I was just kind of
smacking it it will Bend it's something
you need to consider when you're
building in this chassis be gentle with
it don't be like bop bop which is what I
was doing because I pop popped it into a
weird shape see it's in there and out
there so I can be like you can kind of
see that it already shaped differently
right there so I have to push that out
and that one's already kind of done so
that's something to consider Luminess
soft it's easy to bend but this is what
the chassis would essentially look like
done with a system in it even if you go
to RGB lights on top
so at $159 and the color is available
this is where you guys have to decide in
the comments below is this the chassis
you'd be interested in airflow in my
opinion I use the word earlier as
adequate it's gonna get the job done and
if I'm only cooling a CPU with this it's
gonna be fine the graphics card probably
gonna get pretty close to its set
temperature target like anything else
you can just wrap that rent that fan
speed up trade-offs of some acoustics
for performance and do the same thing on
top get yourself some maybe 1,850 rpm
1,850 rpm like Vardar fans or something
that moves more air it has better static
pressure you'll hear the fans a lot more
but if you have a smart controller you
have a fan took tup to the motherboard
and you go in there and set the fan
curves it's not a big deal unless you're
gaming if you're gaming with headphones
or something on it won't really matter
at that point anyway
so I'm sure you're gonna find a lot of
people talk about temperature
discussions on this I'm curious as to
what other people have to say I did an
airflow test on this I do feel like I
need to do a full build in this to see
what the actual temperature tests on
this are going to be I would opt even
for something like a Celsius s 24 a IO
in this versus going with whatever
height air cooler would fit in this
because I feel like the efficiency of
the a IO would be better in this form
factors than a smaller shorter Tower or
cooler Tower which is probably gonna be
a horizontal type at that point but
without having the radiator on there
you'd have better airflow out the top
which could probably balance things out
so there you go guys the neuera ITX from
fractal i hope they call it iit X
because that means maybe we're gonna get
a mid tower in this theme aesthetic in
the future with maybe a glass panel well
how long it took for this one to
actually make its way to market I'm not
holding my breath because I'll die so
tell me what you guys think of this
chassis down in the comments below like
I said there are several colors
available for this so one that's
definitely gonna meet your design choice
and your aesthetics of wherever you're
putting it at $159 it's not cheap but
it's definitely different did fractal
kind of go the right direction or do you
guys think they missed the mark sound
off in the comments below and I'll see
you guys in the next one and no you
can't buy this shirt my wife made it for
me it's a one-off I'm sure by now
someone's like this guy Venus
which door no but I don't like slogan
shirts anyway so I wouldn't sell one but
I digress
dude all swore from a small firm first
firm